(upbeat music)
Last thing we need to know about
is traversing through our DOM elements
as well as, I guess, one more thing,
is removing elements from the DOM.
It's kind of the opposite of adding them.
So let's go ahead and make one more file.
We'll call it traversing.js,
and we'll go in to our index
and we'll change that over to traversing
try catch.
Sometimes the auto complete is not the best.
So there we go.
We're gonna console log, it works.
And it does.
All right, so let's talk about sort of moving.
So, traversing means going up, down, over.
When you have an element,
you'll often need to select an element
based on their position.
So maybe you are working with a button
and you need to grab its parent div.
Or maybe you need to look inside of that element
for all elements that are inside of it.
So there are lots of different properties for that
and they all revolve around node and element.
And I've kind of touched on this so far,
been like, it's a node or an element
but let's dig into, like, what the actual difference is
between a node and an element.
Let's go into our index, that HTML.
Let's go to the top
and just give a paragraph with the class of wes,
and say, I am Wes.
And inside of that we wanna actually put a couple
nested elements, I, and we'll use the em tag, emphasis,
love to BBQ.
Now let's go ahead and select it I guess, first.
Const wes is equal to document.queryselector.wes
and console log wes.
Here we go.
That is it.
Now, what is the difference between a node and an element?
Well, if we go into here and take a look
at what the children are, let's take wes.children,
you'll see that we get a collection of one thing
and that's the em tag.
But if we were to console log wes.childnodes
you see that we get three things.
We get the, if I could hover over top of it,
we get the I am Wes, then we get the emphasis tag,
and then we get the text again.
So, everything here is actually a node
and if it is wrapped in a tag, it also is an element
but it doesn't work the other way around.
So if you select just elements,
you'll only get the emphasis tag.
If you select nodes, you get all
of the three different pieces.
So if we open that up, first node, second node,
which also is an element, and third node.
So there's a bunch of different properties
for working with these nodes and with these elements
and let's kinda go through them.
We already looked at children,
that's gonna give you all of the child elements.
We have a couple other, let me just kinda,
I'm just gonna paste them in here just so we can
kinda go through them all.
L, dit dit duh,
say wes and we'll console.log.
By the way that is me using multiple cursors
in VS code, so the way that you use that
is you on command or control and click
wherever you want them to go.
Or in my case I just selected one thing
and I found subsequent ones by hitting, I think command + D,
yeah, that gives you multiple cursors.
So, let's take a look at what we got here.
Children will obviously it'll give you the children.
First child element, last child element will give you,
I don't know, let's put a couple more elements in here.
I love to barbecue
and let's give a strong tag, Make websites.
There we go.
Last child element gives you the strong tag.
The next one is null.
Previous element sibling.
So that is kinda interesting.
If we were to have like these items right here,
we have one item, two items,
if we were to grab onto one of those items
let's open up div and see we've got these three items here.
If I click on this one,
you see this little $0?
That's a little shortcut that you can use in the dev tools
to refer to the currently selected elements.
So, if I click on this element here, item two,
and then just type in $0,
it's gonna give us the currently selected element
in the dev tools which is cool.
So, we can take that and we can see what the children
or child element count, it'll tell you how many
but we just want children.
It gives us the image, the H2 in the paragraph,
but what we really care about here
is the previous element sibling
and that will give you the item that is before it.
So, right there, I was on item two,
let's hover over top of it, this one,
and if you select the previous element sibling
that will give you the one before it.
Jquery, many years ago, jquery did this really easy for us
where you'd do .prev.next.
All of that is totally doable with just these properties.
Here, they're not named the nicest things but it works,
you can figure it out.
So we've got that item.
Obviously we have next element sibling as well
and then parent element.
So that will go up.
And what's kinda cool about that is,
if you take something that's really low,
like let's take this, let's take this image right here,
$0 gives you the image,
and then if you want the parent element,
that gives you the div of the class of item.
But you can chain that, as long as you want
'cause that will return a new element.
So you can call .parentelement again
and .parentelement again.
That gives us the body tag.
How high can we go?
I think
we can go one more?
Gives us HTML.
Not, oh, oh, oh, no, nothing.
The property is there still but that's as high as we can go.
So, what's kinda cool about that is
let's say I were to select something inside of item two.
Let's take this H2, let's take the span inside of item two.
If I were to do $0 dot, well, let's just check.
That's the span,
.parentelement,
that's the H2,
.parentelement, that's the item.
.nextelementsibling, that's the next item beside it.
So now we went up, up, over
and then you can go down again, .children
and then we could grab the paragraph
with the class of pizza.
We'll talk about this little square bracket notation
but essentially that's how you reference items
that are indexed.
And this is kinda like an array, we'll go into that.
And there we go.
By starting with the span in item two,
we went up, up, over, down, and selected the second element
in there and got the pizza.
Now that's probably not something that you would do
because, assuming that the structure of your HTML
is the best way to move around in your elements,
it's probably not a good idea.
Because if somebody comes in there and adds an extra div,
then your day is ruined.
So, what we'd rather do is just use query selector
and that will allow us to just kinda search
for what we want.
Or there's another method.closest
that will allow us to search
kinda the opposite and up way.
I'm sure we'll use that in some of our examples.
But those properties are all available to us.
We also have a bunch of different properties
for nodes as well.
So these are all for elements.
And these are all for nodes.
These ones will ignore just plain text nodes.
Whereas these ones will not ignore text nodes
and it will give you the text node.
So, it's important to know the difference
between each of those.
'Cause I think, in most cases, you'll probably want
the element selectors, but I have been in many situations
where I do also want to reach for the different nodes.
So, that's what we have there.
The other thing I want to talk to you about
is the removing elements.
And it's pretty simple.
There's a method on every single element
in every single node that is just the ability
to remove something.
So let's say we can go to,
let's do it from the dev tools here.
Let's grab this H2 tag.
$0, that's our H2 and we just call it .remove
and that will remove it.
(chuckles)
Pretty simple.
That's how you can remove something entirely
from the DOM.
The only kinda gotcha is like,
what happens if you were to create an element,
add it to the DOM, and then call remove?
Does it still exist?
So let's do that and check that out real quick
'cause it's good to know that.
So, say const p is equal to document.createlement,
let's create a paragraph tag, p.textcontent
is equal to I will be removed.
Document.body.appendchild p,
let's see if it's working.
I will be removed, good.
And then we can just say p.remove.
Now it's gone, right?
Like you never would have actually seen it
but you know that it's gone.
Now, the question is, if I console log paragraph
underneath it, is it gonna be there?
Is it gonna be null?
Is it gonna be undefined?
Let's check.
Boom, still there.
So the fact that we had created that element
and it exists in our javascript memory,
means that we do still have access to that paragraph element
and we could, again, put it back in if we wanted to.
There we go.
See, it's added once again.
So, not all is lost if you do remove it from the DOM
if you do have reference to that element
and you've created it in your javascript
you can also just add it up again.
So that is traversing and creating.
Let's jump into what I like to call DOM Cardio
for some practice.